# Delineation-of-Autonomous-Driving-Cars-in-Simulator-Ambience-Using-Deep-Learning
Self-driving cars have become a trending subject with a significant improvement in the technologies in the last decade. The project's purpose is to train a neural network to drive an autonomous car agent on the tracks of a Simulator environment. Software Companies like Udacity, Metamoto, Baidu, Microsoft have released the simulator as open-source software as well as licensed versions, and enthusiasts have hosted a competition (challenge) to teach a car how to drive using only camera images and deep learning. Autonomously driving a car requires learning to control steering angle, throttle, and brakes. The behavioural cloning technique used to mimic human driving behavior in the training mode on the track. That means a dataset is generated in the simulator by user-driven car in training mode, and the deep neural network model then drives the car in autonomous mode.

Tensorflow: Free and open-source software library for dataflow and differentiable programming. Tensorflow is for machine learning applications such as artificial neural networks.
Keras: Keras is an open-source neural network library written in Python. Keras is designed to enable fast experimentation with deep neural networks – it is user-friendly, modular, and extensible. Keras API is capable of running on top of Tensorflow, Theano, or CNTK.
Python Libraries: Different python libraries have been used that help in machine learning and deep learning projects – Numpy provides us support with large, multi-dimensional arrays, matrices, and also a collection of mathematical functions. Pandas includes data structures (such as data frames) and operations for manipulating numerical tables and time series. Matplotlib is a plotting library with OOP API for embedding plots into applications. OpenCV or Open Source Computer Vision aimed at real-time computer vision. OpenCV is used for image preprocessing and data augmentation steps. Scikit-Learn (or sklearn) is a machine learning library with features such as regression, classification and clustering algorithms, and various ML functions.
The project makes use of a cloud-based computer system with the Jupyter Notebook interface for the building and execution of the project. The recommended configuration for the project is - Processor: Intel core i5 processor. RAM: 8gb. OS: 64bit OS. GPU: NVIDIA GPU with at least 2GB VRAM.

To gain knowledge about the project and the topic, we have gone through some of the research papers published by Dr. Lex Fridman, from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Dr. Sebastian Thrun, from Stanford University, Eder Santana, from University of Florida, Keshav Bimbraw, from Thaper University. In addition to these, the paper “End to End Learning for Self- Driving Cars” is extensively followed for the technique to design the Convolutional Neural Network architecture.

The dataset for the project is created using the Udacity’s open source self driving car simulator.

During the training phase, the dataset generated mostly consists of 0 degree as steering angle. This can result in a neural network biased towards 0 degree angle. The dataset preprocessing step involves removal of some of the images that have 0 degree as steering angle. After this step, the dataset is split into 80% Training images set and 20% Validation images set.

The proposed neural network is a Convolutional Neural Network or CNN. The architecture for the neural network is inspired from the paper published by Nvidia - “End to End Learning for Self Driving Cars”. The project aims to predict the steering angle for the autonomous mode, so the CNN is “regression” model.

The CNN model trains for a set of epochs. An epoch refers to one cycle through the full training dataset. The images are trained in set of batches. The dataset must be randomly shuffled to avoid training of same set of images.
